---
title: "Bring My Voice Back"
date: 2023-01-29T17:55:48+02:00
---
In the beginning, it was the blog...Well, not really. In the *very
beginning* it was [BBS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulletin_board_system
"Bulletin board system article in Wikipedia"), but I was too young for that, it
was all that came after what influenced me. It was the email, the newsletters
and then, the blogs. An explosion of people that had a fairly good access to
internet combined with a little knowledge on how to put a website up, and
suddenly everyone had a blog. Communities mushroomed everywhere. It was
beautiful to see and take part of.

And then Twitter and Facebook landed, hand in hand with the raise of smartphones
and free of charge, it gave a voice to even more wider group of people. They
removed an  already quite low barrier to have
your thoughts out there on the internet (after WP, Blogspot, etc came up). And
they changed everything, they even [helped sprang
revolutions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arab_Spring "Arab Spring article in
Wikipedia").

But everything that has a beginning, has an end. In the case of Facebook, the
time came when they sold users' data to a British consulting firm and helped
decide the American elections of 2016 in favor of _you-know-who_. It was the [Cambridge Analytica
scandal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook%E2%80%93Cambridge_Analytica_data_scandal
"Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal in Wikipedia"). By then (2018 when
Zuck appeared before US Congress), I was long gone from this platform due to
privacy concerns.

{{< figure src="/image/gail_anderson_poster.jpg#center" link="https://collections.si.edu/search/detail/edanmdm:nmaahc_2020.11.12?q=guid%3A%22ark%3A%2F65665%2Ffd5b38a5cfacfdb4cedabc0c39ecece5051%22&record=1&hlterm=guid%3A%26quot%3Bark%3A%2F65665%2Ffd5b38a5cfacfdb4cedabc0c39ecece5051%26quot%3B" title="Gail Anderson on Marian Wright Edelman. Collection of the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. Â© Gail Anderson." alt="Gail Anderson poster">}}

In the case of Twitter, the community had long been complaining about rampant
racism, sexism and general toxicity of the website. But the final showdown came
with its [acquisition in late
2022](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twitter#Acquisition_by_Elon_Musk "Twitter's
Acquisition in late 2022 in Wikipedia") by _that-who-shall-not-be-named_. In this
case, the combination of toxic community, little benefit and large distraction
was what pushed me to leave it behind in late 2018. But it is now, after [the
show that followed the acquisition](https://twitterisgoinggreat.com/ "Link to
Twitter Is Going Great news timeline") has quieted down a little, when I reflect
on the trends around content creation. The newsletters are _the thing_ nowadays,
I suppose, but [some have claimed that 2023 will be the year of
RSS](https://www.niemanlab.org/2022/12/this-is-the-year-of-the-rss-reader-really/
"Link to NiemanLab think-tank article on the resurgence of RSS in 2023") and
therefore, weblog-based content. Although, to be fair, this has been predicted
[over](https://www.wired.com/story/rss-readers-feedly-inoreader-old-reader/
"Wired's article from 2018 advocating for a revival of RSS") and
[over](https://www.inoreader.com/blog/2020/09/rss-readers-are-coming-back-why-now-is-the-time-for-a-revival.html
"Inoreader (a content reader platform) take on the revival of RSS in 2020")
again in the past years.

For these past years, I have taken for granted my voice on the internet. I have
traded independence for convenience. In light of the state of things, I think it
is time to claim my own voice back, regardless if there is anybody who wants to
hear (read) it. This will be for me the year to start blogging again. It will be
here, and no, I won't be providing comments or
[pingbacks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pingback "Pingback article in
Wikipedia"), if you **really** want to get in touch with me, you can do it via
[email](https://manuel.is/about/ "About page in manuel.is").

EDIT Dec 17, 2023: Updated `<figure>` elements to include `alt` attribute.
